---
layout: post
title: "A story by Minnie Pickering"
date: 2014-11-03 09:16:00 +0000
published: true
---

I'm not sure where I found this, but it is a very interesting biography of the Pickering family.&nbsp; I have provided a non-edited transcription. 

<div style="text-align: center;">

<blockquote>
Written at Norwich, Kansas 1957 &amp; 1958
</blockquote>

</div>

<blockquote>
What I know or remember others telling of the J. B. Pickering family.

Jesse Beshears Pickering and Mary Stanley were married August 3, 1854.  They lived on a 160 acre farm about three or four miles south of Elwood, Indiana.  They lived in a log house.

Mary Stanley was a Quaker maid.  She had to give up her own church when she was married.

I have often heard my father tell about going to church with her and sometimes they would sit through a whole service without a thing said or done.  The Quakers at that time only acted as the spirit moved them.  They would speak, pray, sing just as they were moved by the spirit.  Mother had two brothers named Moses and Aaron.  They lived in Iowa, around Oskaloosa.  That was mother’s home, as I remember hearing them say.

Father had four sisters and no brothers, who all lived around Elwood, Indiana and were farmers.  One sister, Phebe, married a Dr. Hess and he had a nephew who was a good doctor, widely known, I mean, whose name was Dr. Orlando Armfield.  About 1881 or there about, they decided to move to Kansas, Labette County, Youths Beauty Stock Farm.  They had ten children by this time.  Charles Arthur, the oldest, just lived three years.  Viola Ellen was born February 22, 1859.  Rosella was born October 3, 1861, Luther Hess was born March 24, 1863, Cora Alice was born December 16, 1864, Phebe May was born July 27, 1867, Lizzie was born June 26, 1869, Josie was born November 25, 1871, Orlando was born September 11, 1874, and Minnie was born June 22, 1879.

They brought their household goods, some farm equipment, and a buggy that had never been uncrated, by train.  The house was one and one-half stories tall.  It had five rooms – long roof room above, living room, bedroom, dining room, and kitchen downstairs and a cellar which opened out of the dining room and was west of the house as I remember.  Everything was kept in the cellar – canned fruit, apples, pears, peaches, and pickles of all kinds.  A big cotton wood tree was just back of the house and outside of south dining room door across a rock floor was what we called a smoke house.  The east and south end was for cobs, kindling, and some coal.  The smoke house was where we cured our meat and smoked it by hanging it up on the rafters.  We children all worked at jobs on the farm – pulling weeds in the garden, milking and herding cows, making garden, picking grapes.  We had a large orchard east of the house where we had all kinds of apples from early apples like maiden blush, red June, and then later like winsaps apples.  These we picked and stored in the cellar.  Cabbage was raised and made into kraut and put in barrels in the cellar.  We would go to the woods with a big wagon and gather walnuts, hickory nuts and pecans and keep them for use all winter.  Soon after coming to Kansas, Viola, the oldest daughter, and her husband, Jacob Yarling, and baby girls, Blanche, followed them to Kansas from Indiana and lived on a farm about six or eight miles west of them.  When we would butcher we would kill eight or ten hogs and have a day everybody helped.  I can see yet eight or ten hogs hanging up in the barn lot where they had been killed, scalded and scraped, later to be cut up into hams, shoulder, side meat (bacon) cured and smoked sausage made and stuffed into scraped intrails and put down in jars covered with lard – yes and big out door kettles of fat cooked and lard made.  As time went on, Rose married Oscar Wiley – they had five children.  Cora married Thomas Clark – they had eight children.  Luther married Minnie Baty <i><u>(CADH)</u></i> – they had three children.  May married Tom Baty <i><u>(CADE)</u>&nbsp;</i>– they had ten children.  All lived on farms close by and came home often.  We had a country church and school, one mile west of us, Presbyterian church – cemetery north of church – school south of church, across the road called Lake Creek School, to which we all went to school until Minnie was in the second grade.  Walked to school.  We had a country store two miles south of us and Post Office called Cecil – we called for our mail.  No delivery in those days.  It was just three miles south to Oklahoma line – it was the Indian Territory then.  The men folks would go every year down to Indian Territory hunting – would be gone a week or so camping out.  They would bring home game of all kinds – elk, deer, sometimes pheasants, jack rabbits, and prairie chickens.  Our farm was on the road leading from Chetopa seven miles east of us to Coffeyville 25 miles west of us, the main road leading to the strip where men 21 years old could go and stake out a claim and would get it from the government by living on it and improving it.  Many got land that way.  I remember seeing covered wagons by the dozens going by to the strip.  The people would stop for water or eggs or anything we would give them.  Camp fires along side of road.  Viola was sick with tuberculosis, consumption we called it then.  She was in bed about a year.  Jake brought her home and she died there.  Blanche, her little girl who was 6 months younger than I.  She lived with us for a while after her mother died.  We had two little rocking chairs – one red and one natural.  Blanche had the red one.  I thought I was so much bigger than Blanche, I undertook to carry her downstairs once and half way down, I stumbled and we both fell the rest of the way.  I was scolded and I went around to the west window of the cellar and cried and cried.  I never undertook to carry her again.  Soon Jake took her back to Indiana with him.  He remarried and Blanche died when she was about 16 or 17 years old.  Mother soon sickened and was in bed about one year.  It was cancer with her.  She was so patient and good.  My sisters kept things going.  Rose and Cora had married and lived close.  May was the oldest at home.  She had her hands full of work.  Mother died in May, 1886.  I never will forget the day.  We all went to the Presbyterian Church and had the funeral.  I cried all the time.  Jose punched me to keep still.  This was in May.  Luther was married soon after to Minnie across the road.  We called Minnie’s mother “Grandma Baty” and she was really grandmother and mother to us all.  May was married that same summer to Tom Baty <i><u>(CADE)</u></i>&nbsp;and they lived east of us about ¼ mile.  I used to go down there so much.  She used to give me $.50 a week to work for her.  I don’t remember anything I did, but I loved to stay there, always did, she and Tom both were so good to me.  It wasn’t long until Father sold the part of the farm the buildings were on and moved to Chetopa and run a meat market.  Lizzie and Jessie kept house.  I went to school and was in the third grade.  I’ll never forget that old multiplication table that I had to learn, but I learned it and was promoted to the fourth grade.  We had had marks in every study, reading, arithmetic, geography, grammar, as well as spelling.  We had to stand at head of the class all day to get a head mark.  Our County Supt., who was Agnes Baty <i><u>(CADD)</u></i>, was visiting school one day through everything and when we came to spelling – I missed the first word horrison left out 1 r, I can’t remember to this day how to spell it with one r or 2 r’s.  Of course I wanted to cry but tried no to buy I ashamed before Agnes.  I had a very severe sick while we lived there.  I about died.  I thought I was going to but Grandma Baty said it wasn’t the Lord’s will, and I got well but it took me a long time.  I lost all my hair.  Had to have it cut.  We finally moved back to Bartlett and we lived there until I was grown.  I graduated from the eighth grade when I was 13.  I was the youngest of my class.  My oration was “The Value of Time and Knowledge.”  I took the 8th grade over the next year for I was so young to go to Altamont to High School but that summer I taught school in summer and worked in Post Office and drug store to earn a little money.  I went to High School at Altamont the next year.  Bertha Reece and I lived together in one room.  Did our own cooking and came home every two weeks which was 16 miles by horse and buggy and we would take back food with us.  We got along pretty well.  I just went one year.  I went to Normal at Oswego that summer.   I took the examination for teachers and passed it.  That winter I taught school at Lake Creek, the same school I went to as a child.  Had 79 enrolled.  The big boys who came to school after corn gathering had gone to school with me as kids.  As I think back over it now, I wonder how I did it – I don’t’ know but I did.  I was just 16 years old.  I only got $30 a month, I boarded at home and drove my little dun pony hitched to cart to school.  We were always hard up for money.  Father’s health was too poor for him to work and all we had was the rent off the farm.  I had lots of friends – Bertha Reece, Ivy Crane and the Pever young folks who lived in Bartlett close to us – Hattie and John were near my age.  I had a wonderful time going to parties and spelling bees.  I taught school at Ripon west of Bartlett the next two years.  I boarded with the Freemans, who lived near the school on farm.  They were Presbyterian people – good honest people.  I felt like one of the family.  I paid $3 a week for board and room.  In the summer I went to Teachers Normal, it was called.  The next year I taught the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd grades in Bartlett.  I had nieces and nephews go to school to me.  Bertha Reece taught the rest of the grades.  I remember some of the big boys would come to me at recess and noons asking me questions about studies they had.  This time came about then that I lived with May and Father lived with Lute.  Lizzie had marked Miles Bradbury and Jose had married Frank DeCow the year I was in High School, so that left me as housekeeper and I couldn’t keep house and teach school too, so we broke up our home but May and Tome were so good to me.  I never really missed home for Father came down often.  It was only a quarter mile.  I joined the Methodist Church which was the only church in Bartlett at that time.  I taught the primary class in Sunday School, always went to Prayer meeting and to Church every Sunday.  I led the Epworth League the night Hugh preached for us.  He was visiting his folks who lived there and they asked him to preach.  I guess it was love at first sight for he came over to school that week and he visited my room all the time.  I wondered if he ever would go on to the other room.

We were married that spring – March 26, 1900.  Three days after school was out I went to Missouri with him.  Father was sick at time of our marriage and couldn’t be at the wedding.  I was married at May’s.  We went up to see Father right after the wedding meal and I don’t know whether he ever realized we were married or not.  He died the 1st day of April.  Hugh went on to Missouri.  I stayed until after the funeral then I went.  Lute sold Father’s land and after all expenses were paid there was a little left but there were seven children – I received $187 as my share.  I bought an organ with it. 

I have had a good time all my life with up – downs, but my husband was so good to me, always treated me as though I were equal to him and of same age.

Minnie

</blockquote>

<center>
~ Tom ~</center>
<center>
<i style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua';">CADECBAB</i></center>
<center>
<i style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua';">3 Nov 2014</i></center>
